We've got this nice query written out right here that will determine whether or not a given ticket is
already reserved.
And as I mentioned, at the end of the last video, there's very likely going to be some other scenarios
where we need to decide whether or not a given ticket has been reserved.
So we're going to extract this logic into a separate file.
In particular, we're going to extract it into the ticket model file.
So I'm going to go back over to model's ticket.
So we're going to add a new method onto the ticket model.
This is going to allow us to decide whether or not a ticket has actually been reserved.
Let me show you how this is going to work.
I'm going to go down to the interface of ticket doc right here.
And on the ticket doc interface, we're going to add in some new method that's going to exist on an
individual ticket document.
So we're going to say.
That we're going to add in a new method called is reserved.
If this thing ever gets called, we're going to return a promise that is going to resolve with a boolean.
So once we implement this is reserved method, I'm going to flip back over to our handle really quickly.
Once we implement that method, we will be able to write out some code like is reserved.
Is a wait ticket.
Is reserved.
That is the goal.
That's what we're going to try to eventually add in.
So we're going to be able to take a ticket, call a method, and that's going to return to us whether
or not this has been already assigned to some other valid order inside of our app.
So inside of that is reserved method that we're going to write in just a second.
We're going to essentially just run this exact query right here.
So that's going to make it a lot easier to figure out whether or not a ticket has been reserved and
really shortened down the code we have inside of this route.
HANDLER So that's the idea.
So let's go back over to the ticket model file.
We're going to go down towards the bottom.
And right after we define that build method on statics, the static object is how we add a new method
directly to the ticket model itself.
So remember, this is the ticket model.
It's the object that allows us get to get access to the overall collection.
If we want to add a new method to a document, then we're going to add in a method or a property to
ticket schema methods is reserved.
We're going to set the sequel to a keyword function super critical here.
Please make sure you write out a function keyword instead of an arrow function.
So by putting in ticket schema methods is reserved, we can now run what you saw just over here a moment
ago.
We can do something like this.
This is how we add a method directly to the ticket document itself.
Okay.
So why did we add in a function keyword?
Well, Mongoose has we've seen several times.
It's kind of stuck in the ways of old, so to speak, and the old ways of writing JavaScript, I suppose.
So in order to actually get information about the ticket document that we're operating on, when we
call this method right here, we're going to access this.
So inside this function.
This is equal to the ticket.
Document that we just called is reserved on.
So in the context of our new route handler that we were just looking at a moment ago, when we write
out something like this right here.
The value of this inside of that function is going to be equal to that ticket document that we just
found inside the database a moment ago.
The reason we have to use a function keyword inside of here is because if we use an arrow function,
it's going to mess around with the value of this inside of the function.
So that's why we have to use a keyword function.
We're going to also mark this function as being async so we can use the async await syntax.
Then inside of here, we're going to write out essentially the same query that we were looking at a
moment ago inside of our route handler.
Let's just go and copy paste that thing to save a little bit of time.
So I'll find the query that we just wrote.
Here it is right here.
I'm going to cut that whole thing.
Go back over to our ticket model file and then paste it inside of here.
So now inside this function, the ticket document that we were trying to look for is going to be equal
to this inside this function.
So we're going to replace ticket with this like so.
We also need to make sure we import the order model and the order status enum at the top as well.
So we go to the top.
I'm going to import order.
From same directory order.
And now we could get order.
Status from our common module inside of here.
But there's another thing we could do very easily.
In the context of this order service right here, there are several different files that are going to
need to access the order status.
It's a little bit confusing to have the definition of exactly what an order is coming from either the
order bottle file and then in some cases our common module instead.
It would make a lot more sense if we could do something like order status like.
So I think that would just make a little bit more sense because now the implication here is that we
have one file that has the definition of everything order related inside of our application.
So rather than having this separate import statement right here, we're going to try to do this.
So we're going to try to get order status from the order file.
So in order to write this right here, that means we have to go back over to our order model file.
We already imported order status over here and we're just going to re export that thing.
Like so.
So now if we go back over to the ticket model file, that import is now working.
So again, the idea here is just to have one source for everything order related.
Okay.
Let's get back on track here.
So now those errors should be gone.
So inside this is reserved function.
We should now have our existing order.
Again, that thing is going to be either some order, document or null if we did not actually find a
value.
From is reserved.
We don't really care necessarily about the order that this ticket is associated with.
The name of is reserved kind of just implies that we're going to return a billion value of either.
True.
Yes, this thing is reserved or false.
No, it is not reserved.
And as a matter of fact, that's even what we wrote out inside of our method signature.
Right, for it as well.
We said that the promise was going to reserve or be resolve with a boolean.
So rather than just returning the existing order, we're going to return.
Not not existing order.
That's essentially going to take existing order if that thing is equal to null.
It will be flipped to true by the first exclamation and then flip back to false with the second one.
And then if existing order is defined, we're going to flip it first to false and then flip it to true.
So we're just doing that to decide or excuse me, to return a boolean.
True?
Yes.
It is reserved or false.
No, it is not.
So that should be it.
So we're going to save this file.
We can now go back over to our new route handler.
And now we can.
Write out something right underneath that comment where we just had the really long query, we could
say something like is reserved is a weight ticket, dot is reserved.
And then on the if statement, we'll say if is reserved.
Well, I don't know about you, but this is a lot easier to read than what we had before.
It's not really as clear what it means to be reserved.
So this comment being right here doesn't really make a lot of sense.
We might want to move that comment over to the model file.
I'm going to delete it.
You could certainly move it over if you wish.
But this right here, a lot easier to understand what is going on.
We've got a very well named method that's going to tell us with a simple boolean.
Yep.
It's reserved or no, it's not.
So this is a definite good improvement.
It's still a little bit to take care of inside of this handler.
Let's continue in just a moment.